SETH GORDON
16 Waldo Terrace, Brighton, MA 02135
phone 617.779.7369; fax 617.258.6900; email sethg@ropine.com

OBJECTIVE
A challenging full-time job writing high-quality software.

COMPUTER SYSTEMS, LANGUAGES, AND APPLICATIONS
Apache, bash, C++, C, ColdFusion, CVS, Documentum, Emacs,
FrameMaker, InstallShield, Java, JUnit, Linux, MacOS, OpenBSD,
Oracle PL/SQL, Perl, Quadralay WebWorks, Scheme, Solaris,
SQL, UML, Windows NT, XML

WORK EXPERIENCE

May 2001-November 2002
PROGRAMMER/ANALYST for the 
Whitehead Institute / MIT Center for Genome Research.

* Participated in the design of a system for using RTS/Thurnall (an
  automated freezer system) to manage and track sample plates.  Wrote
  Java and PL/SQL code for ordering certain jobs with this system and
  tracking their progress.  Wrote a spec, test plan, and schedule for
  the next version of this application.

* Installed the RT request-tracking system.  Administered it for the
  benefit of various groups within the center.  Migrated an RT
  database from PostgreSQL to MySQL.

* Wrote a Perl script to convert genome-assembly information from the
  old ACE file format to the new.

June 1998-May 2001
TECHNICAL WRITER AND TOOLSMITH for
Lucent Technologies
(Billing and Customer Care Product Unit; formerly Kenan Systems
Corporation; now part of CSG Systems).

* Designed a simple encryption algorithm for generating and checking
  documentation license-key numbers; implemented it in Perl and
  InstallScript.

* Wrote Perl scripts to reformat HTML pages generated by Quadralay
  WebWorks, and to make bulk changes to FrameMaker templates in MIF
  (Maker Interchange Format).

* Wrote Perl module, building on Parse::RecDescent and
  Tree::DAG_Node modules, that parses MIF files.

* Maintained legacy Perl scripts that generate a class library reference
  manual by walking through directories of C++ header and source files,
  constructing tables of information about each class, and writing out
  those tables as a MIF file.

1997, 1998
COPY EDITOR for
Information Gatekeepers, Inc.

Using Microsoft Word, wrote and edited articles based on press
releases and trade journals for approximately 30 telecommunications
magazines; edited articles written by others.  Laid out magazine
issues using PageMaker.

1996, 1997
STUDENT TEACHER
(one day per week in spring 1996, full-time in spring 1997) at the
Horace Mann School for the Deaf & Hard of Hearing

Taught science, using American Sign Language, to deaf elementary- and
middle-school students.  Helped students prepare science-fair
projects.  Used educational games to tutor language-delayed teenager
with minimal knowledge of both ASL and English.

August 1994-December 1996
TAPE TRANSCRIPTIONIST for
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
(formerly New England Deaconess Hospital)

Transcribed medical office notes and letters for doctors and nurses in
the Deaconess Medical Associates and the Department of General
Internal Medicine.  Wrote a program in C to identify the most
frequently used words, weighted for word length, in a one-week sample
of my typing, and then used the WordPerfect 4.1 macro language to
create abbreviations for over a hundred frequently-used words.

September 1993-May 1994
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT at
MIT Laboratory for Computer Science

Did secretarial work for Prof. Barbara Liskov and the Programming
Methodology Group.

September 1991-May 1993
ASSOCIATE TEACHER-COUNSELOR at
The Learning Center for Deaf Children

Supervised emotionally disturbed deaf high-school boys on overnight shift.

TECHNICAL EDUCATION

2002
Laboratory in Software Engineering (6.170) at MIT

1999
Object-Oriented Programming in C++ at Harvard Extension School

VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE

1999-present
Administered a network of Linux and OpenBSD machines at ropine.com for
personal use and education.  For details of this network's components
and configuration, see "http://ropine.com/about/".

1999-present
Served on Board of Directors at Kadimah-Toras Moshe Synagogue, a
congregation with about 200 affiliated families and a budget of about
$120,000 per year.

1988-1992
Teacher at MIT Educational Studies Program.  On weekends, taught
non-credit enrichment classes to junior-high and high-school students.
Titles of classes given include: "On the Trail of the Truth," "How Big
is Infinity? or, Aleph Nulls and Lazy Eights," "Introduction to Vector
Math (for the Misdirected)."  Also taught two summer classes for
high-school students: a college-level, discussion-oriented class in
political philosophy, and a workshop-style writing class.

1988-1989
Associate news editor for The Tech, MIT's biweekly student newspaper.
Edited, proofread, and wrote various news articles and features.

DEGREES

1997
Ed.M. in Education of the Deaf from Boston University

1991
S.B. in Political Science from MIT

PORTFOLIO

I can bring samples of code, writing, and design work to an interview.
